---
title: 'Convert a Word Document to EPUB and Read on iPod'
date: Wed, 15 Sep 2010 00:56:00 +0000
draft: false
url: /2010/09/15/convert-a-document-to-epub-and-read-on-ipod/
author: Romank
summary: ''
tags: []
categories: ['Aspose.Words Product Family']
---

You can use Aspose.Words for .NET to easily convert any document to EPUB.

```
Document doc = new Document(@"E:\MyDoc26.doc");
doc.Save(@"E:\MyDoc26.epub");
```

Then upload this document to your iPod, iPhone or iPad. I have Apple iBooks installed on mine and it can display EPUB documents pretty well.

## Simple Test

Here is a sample I used to check non-English characters and images are displayed alright. I am holding iPod with the document I generated using Aspose.Words against the backdrop of the original document opened in Microsoft Word.

## Navigable Table of Contents

Here is another picture. This time I show a navigable TOC generated by Aspose.Words.

## Splitting Document into Parts

A new feature for EPUB and HTML export in Aspose.Words that we are including in the next release is the ability to split the output document into several parts.

Splitting a large document into parts when saving as EPUB helps to make load and display faster on a mobile device. The document is still a single EPUB file, but it is split into small parts inside.

Here is how I specify the document to be split during save:

```
Document doc = new Document(@”X:\Aspose\Aspose.Words\UserDocs\Temp\3.Split.Java\AW.docx”);
HtmlSaveOptions opt = new HtmlSaveOptions(SaveFormat.Epub);
opt.DocumentSplitCriteria = DocumentSplitCriteria.HeadingParagraph;
opt.DocumentSplitHeadingLevel = 5;
doc.Save(@”X:\Aspose\Aspose.Words\UserDocs\Temp\3.Split.Java\AW.epub”, opt);
```

When I tried this option - it really made a huge difference to the speed of document display in Apple iBooks.

## High Fidelity

And of course it is hard to faithfully convert complex Word documents into EPUB, but Aspose.Words is a world-class document conversion library.

Here are some screenshots where Aspose.Words takes care about converting WMF metafiles and office shapes into something that can be displayed in EPUB.

## OpenOffice documents to EPUB too!

And of course Aspose.Words can convert a document in any of its supported load formats into EPUB. This includes OpenOffice (ODT) documents. Here is a conversion of some ODT document to EPUB, displayed on my iPod.







