---
title: 'Updated Aspose.Words Online Demos'
date: Thu, 04 Dec 2008 23:37:00 +0000
draft: false
url: /2008/12/04/updated-aspose-words-online-demos/
author: Romank
summary: ''
tags: ['aspose.words online demo', 'convert word to epub', 'convert word to image', 'convert word to pdf', 'convert word to pdf online']
categories: ['Aspose.Words Product Family']
---

Hey, we've just updated the online demo to the latest Aspose.Words for .NET 6.0!

The demo lives here http://www.aspose.com/demos/aspose.words/default.aspx

# What's New

*   Direct conversion to PDF
*   Render pages as images to a browser
*   Export as EPUB

# Direct Conversion from Word to PDF

Aspose.Words for .NET is now capable to convert any document to PDF without relying on Aspose.Pdf. The new method is simpler, more efficient and cheaper for the customers. The demo now uses the new direct conversion method.

# Convert Word Pages to Images

The "old Viewer Beta" has been replaced by the new Rendering Engine. The Rendering Engine can print, save as images or draw onto .NET Graphics object any document page. The demo allows you to view Word document pages as images in your browser, navigate through pages and zoom.

# Export Word to EPUB

EPUB is a nice open format for "reflowable" digital publications. The format is to complement PDF. You know that PDF documents are "fixed-page" and it is hard to read PDF books on mobile devices for example, because they just scale and become too small. EPUB solves this problem by letting document content to "reflow" to adapt to the screen or window size and present good looking readable documents.

EPUB is promoted by the International Digital Publishing Forum.

You need an EPUB reader to read EPUB documents. Many EPUB readers are available for different platforms. I can recommend you try Adobe Digital Editions [http://www.adobe.com/products/digitaleditions/][1].

Adobe Digital Editions displays a document generated by Aspose.Words for .NET:

# High Fidelity

And yes, I will mention it again. Aspose.Words is all about high fidelity conversions and rendering. It is high fidelity to Microsoft Word.

See how the same document, but saved by Aspose.Words as Office Open XML looks in Microsoft Word.

Microsoft Word 2007 displays an Office Open XML document generated by Aspose.Words for .NET:

RK: Actually, I see a difference in the way the lines are wrapped in PDF and in OOXML in the first body text paragraph in this report. The reason must be that the document uses some font that is not available on the demo server, where the rendering or conversion to PDF takes place. The font is substituted to another and therefore line wrapping is different from the way it looks in Microsoft Word opened on a local machine, that has the font available. So it is not a bad thing. It is just the way it is. Need to installs more fonts on the server probably.




[1]: http://www.adobe.com/products/digitaleditions/




