---
title: 'Series: Aspose.Words Feature Overview, Part 4: Support for the RTF Format'
date: Fri, 13 Jul 2007 18:57:00 +0000
draft: false
url: /2007/07/13/series-aspose-words-feature-overview-part-4-support-for-the-rtf-format/
author: Romank
summary: ''
tags: []
categories: ['Aspose.Words Product Family']
---

This is the 3rd post in the series. Previous post see here.

#### Rich Text Format (RTF)

The [Rich Text Format (RTF)][1] is one of the document formats supported by Microsoft Word and many other word processing applications. RTF is a human readable word processing format intended for interchange between different applications on various platforms and it has been around for 20 years. The new XML-based formats are becoming more common, but RTF is still being supported and updated by Microsoft. The latest version is RTF 1.9 Specification from January 2007.

RTF features in Aspose.Words:

· Aspose.Words can read and write files in the RTF format of any version.

· Aspose.Words supports over 95% of the RTF 1.8 Specification, which makes Aspose.Words an excellent and lossless tool for working with RTF documents.

· Unknown keywords (unsupported or from newer specifications) are safely ignored.

The RTF specification is a set of keywords. There are over 1400 keywords in the RTF 1.8 Specification. Aspose.Words fully supports (reads and writes) over 1300 of those keywords (over 95%). It is hard to find a similar level of implementation in other products.

  
**An RTF document generated by Aspose.Words and opened in Microsoft Word.**

  
**An RTF document generated by Aspose.Words and opened in Notepad.**




[1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rich_Text_Format




