---
title: 'Charts and Custom Mark in Footnotes APIs, Support for Culture Invariant Languages in DOCX/WML and many other Improvements Added in Aspose.Words 15.6.0'
date: Tue, 07 Jul 2015 07:37:27 +0000
draft: false
url: /2015/07/07/charts-and-custom-mark-in-footnotes-apis-support-for-culture-invariant-languages-in-docxwml-and-many-other-improvements-added-in-aspose.words-15.6.0/
author: Awais Hafeez
summary: ''
tags: []
categories: ['Aspose.Words Product Family']
---

[](http://www.aspose.com/.net/word-component.aspx)Aspose.Words 15.6.0 has been released. This month’s release contains over 89 useful new features, enhancements and bug fixes to the Aspose.Words products.

You can download the latest releases of Aspose.Words from the following links:

*   [Aspose.Words for .NET 15.6.0][1]
*   [Aspose.Words for Java 15.6.0][2]

Here is a look at just a few of the biggest features and API changes in this month’s release. For a full list of bug fixes and improvements please refer to the download pages in the links above.

*   Public Chart API
*   Public API for Custom Mark in footnotes
*   LINQ Reporting Engine supports charts
*   HTML/MHTML with framesets is preserved during open/save
*   Using IImageSavingCallback allows to change image filenames
*   Password verification in write-protected documents
*   Support for culture invariant languages in DOCX/WML e.g. IT, FR, GE
*   Improved footnote handling: support for paragraph rules and better positioning
*   Reworked row collapsing feature according to changed behavior of Word
*   Improved clipping of shapes nested in table cells in documents generated by Word 2013
*   Printer metrics are supported on the Windows platform.

## Public Chart API Introduced

We are proud to announce public chart API v1.0 in the 15.6.0 release of Aspose.Words. Please browse through the following section of documentation to get more details and grab ready-to go code snippets for reuse in your projects.

*   Working with Charts using Aspose.Words

Mainly, the following items are implemented in Aspose.Words 15.6.0

1.  Creating different types of OOXML charts from scratch.
2.  Working with Charts through Shape.Chart object.
3.  Four different overloads for Series.Add method, which were exposed to cover all possible variants of data sources for all Chart types.
4.  Single ChartSeries object.
5.  Chart appearance: ChartDataPoints and ChartDataLabels.

## Password Verification in Write-Protected Document

WORDSNET-7893 is implemented now. A new WriteProtection.ValidatePassword method is added to the public API.

```
 public bool ValidatePassword(string password); 
```

It returns true if the specified password is the same as the write-protection password the document was protected with. If document is not write-protected with password then returns false. Usage example is as follows:

```
 Document doc = new Document("path to input document");
if (doc.WriteProtection.ValidatePassword("password"))
    DoSomething(); // password is correct.
else
    return false; // password is incorrect. 
```

## Public API for Custom Mark in FootNotes

New overload in DocumentBuilder allows inserting footnotes with custom marks:

```
 /// <summary>
/// Inserts a footnote or endnote into the document.
/// </summary>
/// <param name="footnoteType">Specifies whether to insert a footnote or an endnote.</param>
/// <param name="footnoteText">Specifies the text of the footnote.</param>
/// <param name="referenceMark">Specifies the custom reference mark of the footnote.</param>
/// <returns>Returns a footnote object that was just created.</returns>
public Footnote DocumentBuilder.InsertFootnote(FootnoteType footnoteType, string footnoteText, string referenceMark) 
```

And also public writeable property for adding custom mark:

```
 /// <summary>
/// Gets/sets custom reference mark to be used for this footnote.
/// Default value is <see cref="String.Empty"/>, meaning auto-numbered footnotes are used.
/// </summary>
/// <remarks>
/// <para>
/// If this property is set to <see cref="String.Empty"/> or null, then <see cref="IsAuto"/> property will automatically be set to true,
/// if set to anything else then <see cref="IsAuto"/> will be set to false.
/// </para>
/// <para>
/// RTF-format can only store 1 symbol as custom reference mark, so upon export only the first symbol will be written others will be discard.
/// </para>
/// </remarks>
public string Footnote.ReferenceMark {get;set;} 
```

## PICT Images Rendering Supported now

The issue WORDSNET-9153 has now been resolved. Starting from version 15.6.0, Aspose.Words supports rendering and inserting PICT images.

If your document contains PICT image (_usually this occurs in DOC files created on Mac_), Aspose.Words converts this image to EMF format upon reading, just like MS Word does. Quality of the image is preserved, because both PICT and EMF formats are vector. The exception is if you are using Aspose.Words for Java, in this case PICT image is converted to PNG.

You can insert PICT image into the document using DocumentBuilder.InsertImage method. In this case Aspose.Words converts PICT to EMF or PNG (_if you are using Aspose.Words for Java_) on the fly and inserts EMF or PNG into the document.

## DML Effects and Text Effects are not Rendered in PdfA1a and PdfA1b

The issue WORDSNET-11919 has now been resolved. MS Word does not render effects in PdfA1, Aspose.Words now does the same. If PdfSaveOptions.Compliance is set to PdfCompliance.PdfA1b or PdfCompliance.PdfA1a, PdfSaveOptions.DmlEffectsRenderingMode always returns DmlEffectsRenderingMode.None.




[1]: http://www.aspose.com/community/files/51/.net-components/aspose.words-for-.net/default.aspx
[2]: http://www.aspose.com/community/files/72/java-components/aspose.words-for-java/default.aspx




